# Model Zoo Overview#

The FiftyOne Model Zoo provides a powerful interface for downloading models and applying them to your FiftyOne datasets.

It provides native access to hundreds of pre-trained models, and it also supports downloading arbitrary public or private models whose definitions are provided via GitHub repositories or URLs.

## Basic recipe#

The basic recipe for working with zoo models is to load one via [`load_zoo_model()`](../api/fiftyone.zoo.models.html#fiftyone.zoo.models.load_zoo_model "fiftyone.zoo.models.load_zoo_model") and then apply it to a dataset or view using methods like [`apply_model()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model") and [`compute_embeddings()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_embeddings "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_embeddings").

PredictionsEmbeddingsLogits

You can generate model predictions by passing any zoo model to the [`apply_model()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model") method of a dataset or view.

For example, the code sample below shows a self-contained example of loading a Faster R-CNN model from the model zoo and adding its predictions to the [COCO-2017 dataset](../dataset_zoo/datasets/coco_2017.html#dataset-zoo-coco-2017):
    
    
     1import fiftyone as fo
     2import fiftyone.zoo as foz
     3
     4# List available zoo models
     5print(foz.list_zoo_models())
     6
     7# Download and load a model
     8model = foz.load_zoo_model("faster-rcnn-resnet50-fpn-coco-torch")
     9
    10# Load some samples from the COCO-2017 validation split
    11dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset(
    12    "coco-2017",
    13    split="validation",
    14    dataset_name="coco-2017-validation-sample",
    15    max_samples=50,
    16    shuffle=True,
    17)
    18
    19#
    20# Choose some samples to process. This can be the entire dataset, or a
    21# subset of the dataset. In this case, we'll choose some samples at
    22# random
    23#
    24samples = dataset.take(25)
    25
    26#
    27# Generate predictions for each sample and store the results in the
    28# `faster_rcnn` field of the dataset, discarding all predictions with
    29# confidence below 0.5
    30#
    31samples.apply_model(model, label_field="faster_rcnn", confidence_thresh=0.5)
    32print(samples)
    33
    34# Visualize predictions in the App
    35session = fo.launch_app(view=samples)
    

Many models in the Model Zoo expose embeddings for their predictions:
    
    
    1import fiftyone.zoo as foz
    2
    3# Load zoo model
    4model = foz.load_zoo_model("inception-v3-imagenet-torch")
    5
    6# Check if model exposes embeddings
    7print(model.has_embeddings)  # True
    

For models that expose embeddings, you can generate embeddings for all samples in a dataset or view by calling [`compute_embeddings()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_embeddings "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_embeddings"):
    
    
     1import fiftyone.zoo as foz
     2
     3# Load zoo model
     4model = foz.load_zoo_model("inception-v3-imagenet-torch")
     5print(model.has_embeddings)  # True
     6
     7# Load zoo dataset
     8dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("imagenet-sample")
     9
    10# Select some samples to process
    11samples = dataset.take(10)
    12
    13#
    14# Option 1: Generate embeddings for each sample and return them in a
    15# `num_samples x dim` array
    16#
    17embeddings = samples.compute_embeddings(model)
    18
    19#
    20# Option 2: Generate embeddings for each sample and store them in an
    21# `embeddings` field of the dataset
    22#
    23samples.compute_embeddings(model, embeddings_field="embeddings")
    

You can also use [`compute_patch_embeddings()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_patch_embeddings "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_patch_embeddings") to generate embeddings for image patches defined by another label field, e.g,. the detections generated by a detection model.

Many classifiers in the Model Zoo can optionally store logits for their predictions.

Note

Storing logits for predictions enables you to run Brain methods such as [label mistakes](../brain.html#brain-label-mistakes) and [sample hardness](../brain.html#brain-sample-hardness) on your datasets!

You can check if a model exposes logits via [`has_logits()`](../api/fiftyone.core.models.html#fiftyone.core.models.Model.has_logits "fiftyone.core.models.Model.has_logits"):
    
    
    1import fiftyone.zoo as foz
    2
    3# Load zoo model
    4model = foz.load_zoo_model("inception-v3-imagenet-torch")
    5
    6# Check if model has logits
    7print(model.has_logits)  # True
    

For models that expose logits, you can store logits for all predictions generated by [`apply_model()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model") by passing the optional `store_logits=True` argument:
    
    
     1import fiftyone.zoo as foz
     2
     3# Load zoo model
     4model = foz.load_zoo_model("inception-v3-imagenet-torch")
     5print(model.has_logits)  # True
     6
     7# Load zoo dataset
     8dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("imagenet-sample")
     9
    10# Select some samples to process
    11samples = dataset.take(10)
    12
    13# Generate predictions and populate their `logits` fields
    14samples.apply_model(model, store_logits=True)
    

Note

Zoo models may require additional packages such as PyTorch or TensorFlow (or specific versions of them) in order to be used. See [this section](api.html#model-zoo-requirements) for more information on viewing/installing package requirements for models.

If you try to load a zoo model without the proper packages installed, you will receive an error message that will explain what you need to install.

Depending on your compute environment, some package requirement failures may be erroneous. In such cases, you can [suppress error messages](api.html#model-zoo-load).

## Built-in models#

The Model Zoo provides built-in access to hundreds of pre-trained models that you can apply to your datasets with a few simple commands.

[ Explore the models in the zoo ](index.html)

## Remotely-sourced models#

The Model Zoo also supports downloading and applying models whose definitions are provided via GitHub repositories or URLs.

[ Learn how to download remote models ](remote.html)

## Model interface#

All models in the Model Zoo are exposed via the [`Model`](../api/fiftyone.core.models.html#fiftyone.core.models.Model "fiftyone.core.models.Model") class, which defines a common interface for loading models and generating predictions with defined input and output data formats.

[ Grok the Model interface ](design.html)

Note

Did you know? You can also pass [custom models](design.html#model-zoo-custom-models) to methods like [`apply_model()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.apply_model") and [`compute_embeddings()`](../api/fiftyone.core.collections.html#fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_embeddings "fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.compute_embeddings")!

## API reference#

The Model Zoo can be accessed via the Python library and the CLI. Consult the API reference below to see how to download, apply, and manage zoo models.

[ Check out the API reference ](api.html)

IN THIS ARTICLE 
